Add AGENTS.md (#12028)
nf-core/modules: AGENTS.md

- You **MUST NOT** edit the `when` section if present
- You **SHOULD NOT** remove `args` and `prefix` definition unless clearly unnecessary
- You **MAY** edit the `prefix` definition to set a reasonable default prefix, respecting `task.ext.prefix`
- The `stub` section **MUST** emulate the output of the module as closely as possible; see https://nf-co.re/docs/specifications/components/modules/general#stubs
- Module code **MUST** pass all checks triggered by `nf-core modules lint` and `nextflow lint .`

### meta.yml

`meta.yml` **MUST** follow the specification at https://nf-co.re/docs/specifications/components/modules/documentation

### environment.yml
This file lists Conda channels and packages necessary to run the module with Conda and to build Seqera containers. 
- You **SHOULD NOT** add channels unless strictly necessary.
- You **MUST NOT** add "defaults" to channels.
- Each dependency **MUST** specify the channel and version, but **NOT** the build number.
- If pip dependencies are used, you **MUST** also pin the version of pip.

### tests/main.nf.test
The test file **MUST** follow the specificaton at https://nf-co.re/docs/specifications/components/modules/testing.

> - Test names **MUST** follow the rules in the "Test names" section of the specification. Stub test names **SHOULD** end with `- stub`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Test names **MUST** follow the rules in the "Test names" section of the specification. Stub test names **MUST** end with `- stub`.
```
we lint for that

│   └── yaml-schema.json // schema for subworkflow meta.yaml
└── tests // assets for running tests
    └── config // Nextflow configurations, do not edit unless directly prompted
```

Certain rarely edited files were omitted in the treemap. You **MUST NOT** edit them unless the user explicitly asks for it.

### modules/nf-core structure
Module directories are under modules/nf-core, either directly or with one nesting level. The following rules apply:
- If a tool has only one command, it is included directly (e.g. modules/nf-core/iqtree)
- If a tool has subcommands, they are contained as subdirectories of the tool directory (e.g. modules/nf-core/bedops/convert2bed); if the tool without subcommands has a separate functionality, it is included as a subcommand (e.g. modules/nf-core/kraken2/kraken2)
- If a tool has multiple levels of subcommands, the subcommands are concatenated (e.g. `aws s3 ls` would be modules/nf-core/aws/s3ls)

### Module directory structure
Required structure:

```
modules/nf-core/{module}/
├── environment.yml       // list of Conda packages with pinned versions
├── main.nf               // Nextflow code of the module

> ├── meta.yml              // YAML file containing information about the module

Reviewer: ```suggestion
├── meta.yml              // contains information about inputs, outputs and tools in the module
```
That it is a yaml file is self explanatory

└── tests
    ├── main.nf.test      // nf-test unit tests for the module 

>     ├── main.nf.test.snap // snapshots for the tests, **SHOULD ONLY** be editted through `nf-test` commands

Reviewer 2: I sometimes manually find/replace version numbers to not to have to rerun tests.
or `nf-core` commands?
`editted` is incorrect, whatever.

>     └── nextflow.config   // Nextflow configuration used for testing ONLY; multiple config files may exist in some cases

Reviewer 2: We don't want multiple config files, they should use module_args.

```

### Subworkflow directory structure
Each subworkflow has a single top-level directory, without nesting. Required structure:

```
subworkflows/nf-core/{subworkflow}/
├── main.nf               // Nextflow code of the subworkflow

> ├── meta.yml              // YAML file containing information about the subworkflow

Reviewer 2: Subworkflows can include a nextflow.config to make them work, this gets highlighted when you run nf-core subworkflows install (gives the `includeConfig` line)

> ├── meta.yml              // YAML file containing information about the subworkflow

Reviewer: Same as above

└── tests
    ├── main.nf.test      // nf-test unit tests for the subworkflow 

>     ├── main.nf.test.snap // snapshots for the tests, **SHOULD ONLY** be editted through `nf-test` commands

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ├── main.nf.test.snap // snapshots for the tests, **SHOULD ONLY** be edited through `nf-test` commands
```

    └── nextflow.config   // Nextflow configuration used for testing ONLY; multiple config files may exist in some cases
```

## Structure of a module
Each module contains several files. Each file has a well-defined structure that you **MUST** follow.

### main.nf
- main.nf **MUST** define **ONLY** one Nextflow `process`
- You **MUST NOT** add any directives other than `tag`, `label`, `conda`, and `container`
- `input` and `output` sections **MUST** follow the specification at https://nf-co.re/docs/specifications/components/modules/input-output-options
- You **MUST NOT** edit the `when` section if present
- You **MUST NOT** edit or remove `args` and `prefix` definitions 
- The `stub` section **MUST** emulate the output of the module as closely as possible; see https://nf-co.re/docs/specifications/components/modules/general#stubs
- Module code **MUST** pass all checks triggered by `nf-core modules lint` and `nextflow lint .`

### meta.yml

`meta.yml` **MUST** follow the specification at https://nf-co.re/docs/specifications/components/modules/documentation

### environment.yml

> This file lists Conda channels and packages necessary to run the module with Conda.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This file lists Conda channels and packages necessary to run the module with Conda and to build the seqera containers. 
```

- You **SHOULD NOT** add channels unless strictly necessary.
- You **MUST NOT** add "defaults" to channels.

> - Each dependency **MUST** specify the channel and version, but **NOT** the build number.

Reviewer: For pip dependencies you must also pin the pip version as a dependency

- `ext.prefix`: prefix used to name output files
- `ext.prefix2`: a second prefix used in case of multiple outputs; you **MUST NOT** use it for other purposes, e.g. file formats
- `ext.use_gpu`: a flag to determine whether a module with optional acceleration should use GPUs

Modules **MUST NOT** assume the presence of other `ext` options.

## GPU-capable modules
Modules that use GPUs **MUST** follow the documentation at https://nf-co.re/docs/developing/components/gpu-modules.

## nf-core tools
nf-core provides a CLI toolkit for working with the nf-core template. The core command is `nf-core`.

- You **SHOULD** use the tools instead of creating files manually.
- You **SHOULD** use `nf-core modules --help` to discover commands relevant for modules.
- You **SHOULD** use `nf-core subworkflows --help` to discover commands relevant for subworkflows.
- You **MUST** write subtool module names in commands with a slash, for example `samtools/sort`.

## nf-test and testing
- Run tests with `nf-test test {modules|subworkflows}/{path}/tests --profile=+{docker|singularity|conda}`

> - If you expect the output to change (e.g. after a tool update), you **SHOULD** update the snapshot with `nf-core modules/subworkflows test {name} --update`. You **MUST** regenerate snapshots on the same CPU architecture as CI.

Reviewer 2: This is saying to use two different methods?
I think nf-test is the more reliable one personally, it returns errors in a more verbose way. Can also recommand ``--stop-on-first-failure`.

## git and branch policy

> - You **MUST NOT** commit any code to `master`. Use pull requests instead.

Reviewer 2: It won't let you, so does it really need stating?

- You **MUST** create a new branch with a meaningful name for each feature, whether you are working directly in the nf-core repository or on a fork.
- If you work on multiple features in parallel, you **SHOULD** use a separate worktree for each task to prevent clobber.

## Commit rules and routine
- Each commit **SHOULD** contain one logical change.
- Every commit **MUST** only edit files in one module or subworkflow.
- The commit title **SHOULD** be concise and written in imperative mood. You **MUST** mention the name of the affected component in the commit message.
- You **MUST** use special commit titles and no commit body in the following cases:
  - only module version bump: "Bump versions in {module name}"

>   - only nf-test snapshot update: "Update snapshots in {component name}"

Reviewer 2: I don't understand the need for this?

├── nf-test.config // configuration for nf-test
├── subworkflows
│   ├── nf-core          // directory containing nf-core subworkflows, described below
│   └── yaml-schema.json // schema for subworkflow meta.yaml
└── tests // assets for running tests
    └── config // Nextflow configurations, do not edit unless directly prompted
```

Certain rarely edited files were omitted in the treemap. You **MUST NOT** edit them unless the user explicitly asks for it.

### modules/nf-core structure
Module directories are under modules/nf-core, either directly or with one nesting level. The following rules apply:
- If a tool has only one command, it is included directly (e.g. modules/nf-core/iqtree)
- If a tool has subcommands, they are contained as subdirectories of the tool directory (e.g. modules/nf-core/bedops/convert2bed); if the tool without subcommands has a separate functionality, it is included as a subcommand (e.g. modules/nf-core/kraken2/kraken2)
- If a tool has multiple levels of subcommands, the subcommands are concatenated (e.g. `aws s3 ls` would be modules/nf-core/aws/s3ls)

### Module directory structure
Required structure:

```
modules/nf-core/{module}/

> ├── environment.yml       // list of Conda packages with versions

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
├── environment.yml       // list of Conda packages with pinned versions
```

├── main.nf               // Nextflow code of the module
├── meta.yml              // YAML file containing information about the module
└── tests
    ├── nextflow.config   // Nextflow configuration used for testing ONLY; multiple config files may exist in some cases
    ├── main.nf.test      // nf-test unit tests for the module

>     └── main.nf.test.snap // snapshots for the tests, **SHOULD ONLY** be editted through `nf-test` commands

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    ├── main.nf.test      // nf-test unit tests for the module 
    ├── main.nf.test.snap // snapshots for the tests, **SHOULD ONLY** be editted through `nf-test` commands
    └── nextflow.config   // Nextflow configuration used for testing ONLY; multiple config files may exist in some cases```

```

### Subworkflow directory structure
Each subworkflow has a single top-level directory, without nesting. Required structure:

```
subworkflows/nf-core/{subworkflow}/
├── main.nf               // Nextflow script of the subworkflow

> ├── meta.yml              // structured description of the subworkflow

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
├── main.nf               // Nextflow code of the subworkflow
├── meta.yml              // YAML file containing information about the subworkflow
```

└── tests
    ├── main.nf.test      // nf-test unit tests for the subworkflow 
    ├── main.nf.test.snap // snapshots for the tests, **SHOULD ONLY** be editted through `nf-test` commands
    └── nextflow.config   // Nextflow configuration used for testing ONLY; multiple config files may exist in some cases
```

## Structure of a module
Each module contains several files. Each file has a well-defined structure that you **MUST** follow.

### main.nf

> - main.nf **MUST** define one Nextflow `process`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- main.nf **MUST** define **ONLY** one Nextflow `process`
```

- You **MUST NOT** add any directives other than `tag`, `label`, `conda`, and `container`
- `input` and `output` sections **MUST** follow the specification at https://nf-co.re/docs/specifications/components/modules/input-output-options
- You **MUST NOT** edit the `when` section if present

> - You **MUST NOT** edit or remove `args` and `prefix` definitions 

Reviewer 2: This is not true, you can add a default prefix, and some modules don't use either.

- The `stub` section **MUST** emulate the output of the module as closely as possible; see https://nf-co.re/docs/specifications/components/modules/general#stubs
- Module code **MUST** pass all checks triggered by `nf-core modules lint` and `nextflow lint .`

### meta.yml

`meta.yml` **MUST** follow the specification at https://nf-co.re/docs/specifications/components/modules/documentation

### environment.yml
This file lists Conda channels and packages necessary to run the module with Conda and to build Seqera containers. 
- You **SHOULD NOT** add channels unless strictly necessary.
- You **MUST NOT** add "defaults" to channels.
- Each dependency **MUST** specify the channel and version, but **NOT** the build number.
- If pip dependencies are used, you **MUST** also pin the version of pip.

### tests/main.nf.test

> The test file **MUST** follow the specificaton at https://nf-co.re/docs/specifications/components/modules/testing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The test file **MUST** follow the specification at https://nf-co.re/docs/specifications/components/modules/testing.
```

> - The name of each test **SHOULD** contain the name of the tool, the main input format, and other inputs if relevant (example: `test("samtools - bam - index")`). Stub test names **SHOULD** end with `- stub`.

Reviewer 2: This is not the naming structure that we have in place. See: https://nf-co.re/docs/specifications/components/modules/testing#test-names

- You **MUST** follow assertion rules at https://nf-co.re/docs/developing/testing/assertions.

### tests/nextflow.config

> tests/nextflow.config has no effect on pipeline runtime, it is only applied in unit tests.

Reviewer 2: Describe `module_args`?

- The subworkflow **SHOULD** contain multiple modules (at least 3, or 2 with complex logic) and any Nextflow logic required to connect them.

### meta.yml
The following sections differ:
- a `components` section **MUST** be present, containing a list of called modules, instead of `tools`,
- `input` and `output` sections **MUST** contain all variables and files, but these sections **NEED NOT** exactly match the channel structure of the Nextflow file,
- a `topics` section **MUST NOT** be present.

## Meta map
The meta map is a Nextflow map passed along with each file that contains sample-specific information.

Modules:
- nf-core modules **SHOULD** accept a meta map for at least the main input, unless the purpose of the module makes it clearly pointless.
- If a meta map is accepted, it **MUST** also be propagated in at least 1 output.
- If there are multiple file input channels, the module **MAY** define additional meta inputs called `meta2`, `meta3`, and so on.
- Modules **MAY** assume that the meta map contains `meta.id` (always) and `meta.single_end` (where relevant).

> - Modules **SHOULD NOT** assume the existence of any other keys in the meta map.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Modules **MUST NOT** assume the existence of any other keys in the meta map.
```

## `ext` options
The following `ext` options are allowed in nf-core:
- `ext.args`: arguments for the underlying tool, passed directly if present (for multi-tool modules, `args2` through `args99` are allowed as well)
- `ext.prefix`: prefix used to name output files
- `ext.prefix2`: a second prefix used in case of multiple outputs; you **MUST NOT** use it for other purposes, e.g. file formats
- `ext.use_gpu`: a flag to determine whether a module with optional acceleration should use GPUs

Modules **MUST NOT** assume the presence of other `ext` options.

## GPU-capable modules
Modules that use GPUs **MUST** follow the documentation at https://nf-co.re/docs/developing/components/gpu-modules.

## nf-core tools
nf-core provides a CLI toolkit for working with the nf-core template. The core command is `nf-core`.

- You **SHOULD** use the tools instead of creating files manually.
- You **SHOULD** use `nf-core modules --help` to discover commands relevant for modules.
- You **SHOULD** use `nf-core subworkflows --help` to discover commands relevant for subworkflows.
- You **MUST** write subtool module names in commands with a slash, for example `samtools/sort`.

## nf-test and testing

> - Run tests with `nf-test test {modules|subworkflows}/{path}/tests --profile +{docker|singularity|conda}`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Run tests with `nf-test test {modules|subworkflows}/{path}/tests --profile=+{docker|singularity|conda}`
```

- Run tests with `nf-test test {modules|subworkflows}/{path}/tests --profile=+{docker|singularity|conda}`
- If you expect the output to change (e.g. after a tool update), you **SHOULD** update the snapshot with `nf-core modules/subworkflows test {name} --update`. You **MUST** regenerate snapshots on the same CPU architecture as CI.

## git and branch policy
- You **MUST NOT** commit any code to `master`. Use pull requests instead.
- You **MUST** create a new branch with a meaningful name for each feature, whether you are working directly in the nf-core repository or on a fork.
- If you work on multiple features in parallel, you **SHOULD** use a separate worktree for each task to prevent clobber.

## Commit rules and routine

> - Each commit **SHOULD** contain one logical change.

Reviewer 2: Why do we care about how it commits?

- The commit title **SHOULD** be concise and written in imperative mood. You **MUST** mention the name of the affected component in the commit message.
- You **MUST** use special commit titles and no commit body in the following cases:
  - only module version bump: "Bump versions in {module name}"
  - only nf-test snapshot update: "Update snapshots in {component name}"

> - Before each commit, you **MUST** run `prek`, stage all changes it generates, resolve all errors and all solvable warnings, and repeat until none remain.

Reviewer 3: if pref is properly set up, there is no need to run prek before each commit

Author: I've had issues with it, especially when prettier checks failed (prek would block the PR instead of adding the necessary changes). Running `prek` manually fixes the issue. Not sure if that's my fault or a problem with the setup.

Reviewer 3: @mashehu you are my personal prek master/guru

Reviewer: It might have been discussed somewhere else and I missed it. But are we really encouraging commits by agents? That pushes even more of the review load onto reviewers (because it makes it too easy to push garbage, that an eager reviewer quickly jumps on instead of having a bit of a barrier what people actually commit)

Reviewer: Concerning prek: it (and from the sound of it also you @itrujnara 😜) should just install the pre-commit rules via prek install -f and thats it 🙂

Reviewer 3: I am fine with commits made by AGENTS as long as the human review them before asking an external review.

Reviewer: Which is not happening. Maybe we should instruct the agents to only open draft PRs to add a distinction step

Reviewer 3: Good idea

## Push routine
- You **SHOULD** only push after implementing some meaningful changes and if the code is working. You **MUST** obtain permission to push from the user.
- Before pushing, you **MUST** run `nf-core modules/subworkflows lint {name}`. You **MUST** resolve all errors and all possible warnings. You **MUST** repeat this routine until there are no solvable outstanding issues.

> - You **MUST** run `nf-core modules/subworkflows test {name}`. If the run fails, you **MUST** resolve the underlying issues. If the test fails due to mismatching snapshots, update them with `nf-core modules/subworkflows test {name} --update` only if permitted (see "nf-test" above). Otherwise, you **MUST** fix the issue that caused the unexpected change.

Reviewer 3: no nf-test here?

Author: Oops

- If the module you have updated is used in subworkflows or in tests of other modules, update their test snapshots as well.
- If you know the code will cause issues or you intend to push more changes, you **SHOULD** add `[skip ci]` at the end of the commit title. Omit this tag if the changes for final, review-ready commits.

## PR procedure
- All changes **MUST** be submitted to nf-core `master` through GitHub pull request.

> - You **MUST NOT** create "ready for review" pull requests. You **MAY** create draft pull requests if authorized by the user.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- You **MUST NOT** create "ready for review" pull requests. You **MAY** create draft pull requests if authorised by the user.
```

- A PR **MAY** instead introduce an identical, small change in multiple components. The number of files changed **MUST** stay low enough for proper human review.
- The PR **MUST** use the nf-core PR template, including the checklist. The PR message **SHOULD** start with a brief explanation of the changes made and the motivation.
- Each PR requires 1 approving review. A second review is recommended for exceptionally complex PRs. PR review can be requested on Slack by a human.
- All CI checks **MUST** pass before the PR can be merged.

## Agent self-disclosure
- If you generated a majority of the code in a commit, you **MUST** add "Generated by {your name}" at the end of the commit message body.

> - If you open a PR autonomously, you **MUST** add "Generated by {your name}" at the end of the PR message (above the checklist).

Reviewer 3: Should we say something about AGENTS replying to comments in PRs?

Author: I'm not sure it will fully cure the issue (due to OpenClaw and the like), but it's worth a try

Reviewer 5: I would like this as well please

Author: I have added a bullet about this

Reviewer 3: We have noticed some non human like reply on both Slack and GitHub.
I am happy to help out a fellow human contributor.
I am less than happy helping what I thought was a human contributor that might not fully understand me but is actually an agent badly setup by a human.

Personal POV:
I see no issue discussing with an agent, if the replies are supervised, but otherwise I will just closed things, and I will consider removing the user from the github org.

Author: I think a complete AI policy is outside the scope of this PR, this only contains specific instructions for agents

# nf-core/modules: agents

This is the AI agent context file for the nf-core modules repository. All AI agents and coding assistants **MUST** read and strictly follow the rules contained in this document.

## Natural language
All comments and documentation **MUST** be written in English with British spelling.

## Key terms
- **Module**: a single process that achieves a single, well defined task (e.g. aligning reads to a genome)
- **Subworkflow**: a sequence of chained modules that achieve a specific objective (e.g. FASTQ cleanup and quality check)
- **Component**: a module or subworkflow

## Repository structure

> You are working in a copy of the nf-core modules repository. Repository structure:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
You are working in the nf-core modules repository. Repository structure:
```

├── nf-test.config // configuration for nf-test
├── subworkflows
│   ├── nf-core          // directory containing nf-core subworkflows, described below
│   └── yaml-schema.json // schema for subworkflow meta.yaml
└── tests // assets for running tests
    └── config // Nextflow configurations, do not edit unless directly prompted
```

Certain rarely edited files were omitted in the treemap. You **MUST NOT** edit them unless the user explicitly asks for it.

### modules/nf-core structure
Module directories are under modules/nf-core, either directly or with one nesting level. The following rules apply:
- If a tool has only one command, it is included directly (e.g. modules/nf-core/iqtree)
- If a tool has subcommands, they are contained as subdirectories of the tool directory (e.g. modules/nf-core/bedops/convert2bed); if the tool without subcommands has a separate functionality, it is included as a subcommand (e.g. modules/nf-core/kraken2/kraken2)
- If a tool has multiple levels of subcommands, the subcommands are concatenated (e.g. `aws s3 ls` would be modules/nf-core/aws/s3ls)

### Module directory structure
Required structure:

```

> modules/nf-core/{module}/

Reviewer 6: not sure if we should also add the gpu ones here, or give the bots the link to the documentation somewhere else: https://nf-co.re/docs/developing/components/gpu-modules

Author: Added in another place

├── environment.yml       // list of Conda packages with versions
├── main.nf               // Nextflow code of the module
├── meta.yml              // YAML file containing information about the module
└── tests
    ├── nextflow.config   // Nextflow configuration used for testing ONLY; multiple config files may exist in some cases
    ├── main.nf.test      // nf-test unit tests for the module

>     └── main.nf.test.snap // snapshots for the tests, do not edit

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    └── main.nf.test.snap // snapshots for the tests, **SHOULD ONLY** be editted through `nf-test` commands
```

```

### Subworkflow directory structure
Each subworkflow has a single top-level directory, without nesting. Required structure:

```
subworkflows/nf-core/{subworkflow}/
├── main.nf               // Nextflow script of the subworkflow
├── meta.yml              // structured description of the subworkflow
└── tests
    ├── main.nf.test      // nf-test unit tests for the subworkflow 

>     ├── main.nf.test.snap // snapshots for the tests, you **MUST NOT** edit

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    ├── main.nf.test.snap // snapshots for the tests, **SHOULD ONLY** be editted through `nf-test` commands
```

    └── nextflow.config   // Nextflow configuration used for testing ONLY; multiple config files may exist in some cases
```

## Structure of a module
Each module contains several files. Each file has a well-defined structure that you **MUST** follow.

### main.nf
- main.nf **MUST** define one Nextflow `process`
- You **MUST NOT** add any directives other than `tag`, `label`, `conda`, and `container`
- `input` and `output` sections **MUST** follow the specification at https://nf-co.re/docs/specifications/components/modules/input-output-options
- You **MUST NOT** edit the `when` section if present
- You **MUST NOT** edit or remove `args` and `prefix` definitions 
- The `stub` section **MUST** emulate the output of the module as closely as possible; see https://nf-co.re/docs/specifications/components/modules/general#stubs

> - Module code **MUST** pass all checks triggered by `nf-core modules lint`

Reviewer 6: Should also need to pass `nextflow lint *`

### meta.yml
`meta.yml` contains a structured description of the module with the following sections:
- name: the name of the module (in lowercase)
- description: a one-sentence description of the module
- keywords: a list of lowercase keywords for searching; should prioritize findability; must contain tool and subtool name, as well as "multi-tool" if the module contains multiple non-trivial tools
- tools: descriptions of tools used by the module, one entry for each tool
- input: descriptions of inputs, the structure must exactly match the .nf file
- output: descriptions of outputs, the structure must exactly match the .nf file
- topics: descriptions of topic outputs, should match relevant entries in the output section
- authors: GitHub handles of people who created the module

> - maintainers: GitHub handles of people who maintain the module; these **MAY** be the same as authors

Reviewer 6: The link below is sufficient, remove all this (duplciate information)
```suggestion
```
Except if you added something not mentioned --keep that info

The details are described at https://nf-co.re/docs/specifications/components/modules/documentation

### environment.yml
This file lists Conda channels and packages necessary to run the module with Conda.
- You **SHOULD NOT** add channels unless strictly necessary.
- You **MUST NOT** add "defaults" to channels.
- Each dependency **MUST** specify the channel and version, but **NOT** the build number.

### tests/main.nf.test

> This file contains test cases for unit testing with nf-test. The contents of the file are wrapped in a single `nextflow_process` block and start with several auto-generated lines.

Reviewer 6: Again, I would prefer just a link to the website, to avoid maintenace burdain of this file.
I'd prefer writing it down here in case the site is too verbose.

Author: Section reduced

- Each test case is defined with the keyword `test` followed by the test name.
- The name of the test **SHOULD** contain the name of the tool, the main input format, and other inputs if relevant (example: `test("samtools - bam - index")`). Stub test names **SHOULD** end with `- stub`.
- You **SHOULD** use nf-core test data. You **MAY** use a setup block to generate input files.
- You **MUST** wrap all test assertions in a single `assertAll` block.
- Each test case **MUST** assert that the process succeeds (`assert process.success`).
- If output is deterministic, the test **MUST** assert identical snapshot. Otherwise, for each file, it **SHOULD** assert the first possible of: initial lines match, a string matches, file exists.
- There **SHOULD** be one test case for each input scenario. Every input channel **MUST** be used in at least 1 test case.
- Each module **MUST** have at least 1 stub test per execution mode.

> 

Reviewer 6: some modules tagged in other modules' tests or subworkflows, require nf-test snapshots to be udpated there as welll. This should be made aparent before opening a PR

### tests/nextflow.config
tests/nextflow.config has no effect on pipeline runtime, it is only applied in unit tests.

## Structure of a subworkflow
Subworkflows are structured similarly to modules. Subworkflows have no environment.yml, since Conda information is inherited from the included modules. The differences in specific files are described below.

### main.nf
- The file starts with include statements for modules and other subworkflows.
- The subworkflow is defined in a single named `workflow` block, with `take` (input), `main` (script), and `emit` (output) sections.
- The subworkflow **MAY** take any inputs that are required for the tools and produce any output that may reasonably be useful.

> - The subworkflow **SHOULD** contain multiple modules (generally at least 3) and any Nextflow logic required to connect them.

Reviewer 6: 2 might also work

- Any channel operations in subworkflows **MUST** preserve the meta where present. 
- The presence of metas in input and output channels **MUST** be documented through comments (example: `// channel: [ val(meta), [ bam ] ]`) and meta.yml.

## `ext` options
The following `ext` options are allowed in nf-core:
- `ext.args`: arguments for the underlying tool, passed directly if present (for multi-tool modules, `args2` through `args99` are allowed as well)
- `ext.prefix`: prefix used to name output files
- `ext.prefix2`: a second prefix used in case of multiple outputs; you **MUST NOT** use it for other purposes, e.g. file formats
- `ext.use_gpu`: a flag to determine whether a module with optional acceleration should use GPUs

Modules **MUST NOT** assume the presence of other `ext` options.

## nf-core tools
nf-core provides a CLI toolkit for working with the nf-core template. The core command is `nf-core`.

- You **SHOULD** use the tools instead of creating files manually.
- You **SHOULD** use `nf-core modules --help` to discover commands relevant for modules.
- You **SHOULD** use `nf-core subworkflows --help` to discover commands relevant for subworkflows.

> - You **MUST** write subtool module names in commands with a slash, for example `samtools/sort`.

Reviewer 6: I think this was already covered in modules above

Author: I'm not sure. The earlier section refers to paths, this one refers to command syntax.

> You can find the detailed documentation for each subcommand at https://nf-co.re/docs/nf-core-tools/cli/{modules|subworkflows}/{subcommand}.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
```
the --help command is enough for the bot to explore

## nf-test and testing

> - Run module tests with `nf-core modules test {name}`.

Reviewer 6: This will be interesting. Me and my bots prefer nf-test commands. I'd like to see how this will affect my bots judgements on what to use. Might need to remove this AGENTS.md file on my side...

Reviewer 3: Same for me, I do prefer nf-test commands

Author: nf-test has more useful output (sorry infra team), but nf-core is the "canonical" approach. Not sure what to do about this.

Author: Okay, changed it, useful output wins

Reviewer 3: I think for me the advantage of running the nf-core command is that the tags are built-in

- Run subworkflow tests with `nf-core subworkflows test {name}`.

> - If you expect the output to change (e.g. after a tool update), you **SHOULD** update the snapshot with `nf-core modules/subworkflows test {name} --update`. You **MUST** regenerate snapshots on the same CPU architecture as CI.

Reviewer 6: something about picking test names?

Author: There is info in the `main.nf.test` section above

## git and branch policy
- You **MUST NOT** commit any code to `master`. Use pull requests instead.
- You **MUST** create a new branch with a meaningful name for each feature, whether you are working directly in the nf-core repository or on a fork.
- If you work on multiple features in parallel, you **SHOULD** use a separate worktree for each task to prevent clobber.

## Commit rules and routine
- Each commit **SHOULD** contain one logical change.
- Every commit **MUST** only edit files in one module or subworkflow.
- The commit title **SHOULD** be concise and written in imperative mood. You **MUST** mention the name of the affected component in the commit message.
- You **MUST** use special commit titles and no commit body in the following cases:
  - only module version bump: "Bump versions in {module name}"
  - only nf-test snapshot update: "Update snapshots in {component name}"
- Before each commit, you **MUST** run `prek`, stage all changes it generates, resolve all errors and all solvable warnings, and repeat until none remain.

## Push routine

> - You **SHOULD** only push after implementing some meaningful changes and if the code is working.

Reviewer 6: and after agreement with the user...they might want to make the push themselves

- Before pushing, you **MUST** run `nf-core modules/subworkflows lint {name}`. You **MUST** resolve all errors and all possible warnings. You **MUST** repeat this routine until there are no solvable outstanding issues.
- You **MUST** run `nf-core modules/subworkflows test {name}`. If the run fails, you **MUST** resolve the underlying issues. If the test fails due to mismatching snapshots, update them with `nf-core modules/subworkflows test {name} --update` only if permitted (see "nf-test" above). Otherwise, you **MUST** fix the issue that caused the unexpected change.
- If you know the code will cause issues or you intend to push more changes, you **SHOULD** add `[skip ci]` at the end of the commit title. Omit this tag if the changes for final, review-ready commits.

> 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
```

# nf-core/modules: agents

This is the AI agent context file for the nf-core modules repository. All AI agents and coding assistants **MUST** read and strictly follow the rules contained in this document.

## Natural language

> All comments and documentation **MUST** be written in English with British spelling. Documentation files **SHOULD** additionally follow the style guide at https://nf-co.re/docs/developing/documentation/style-guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All comments and documentation **MUST** be written in English with British spelling.
```
not so much docs in this repo

## Repository structure
You are working in a copy of the nf-core modules repository. Repository structure:

```
.

> ├── AGENTS.md // this file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
keeping context small

├── modules
│   ├── environment-schema.json // schema for module environment.yaml

> │   ├── meta-schema.json        // schema for module meta.yaml 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
│   ├── environment-schema.json // schema for module's environment.yml
│   ├── meta-schema.json        // schema for module's meta.yml 
```

### Module directory structure
Required structure:

```
modules/nf-core/{module}/
├── environment.yml       // list of Conda packages with versions
├── main.nf               // Nextflow code of the module
├── meta.yml              // YAML file containing information about the module
└── tests
    ├── nextflow.config   // Nextflow configuration used for testing ONLY; multiple config files may exist in some cases
    ├── main.nf.test      // nf-test unit tests for the module
    └── main.nf.test.snap // snapshots for the tests, do not edit
```

### Subworkflow directory structure
Each subworkflow has a single top-level directory, without nesting. Required structure:

```
subworkflows/nf-core/{subworkflow}/
├── main.nf               // Nextflow script of the subworkflow
├── meta.yml              // structured description of the subworkflow
└── tests
    ├── main.nf.test      // nf-test unit tests for the subworkflow 
    ├── main.nf.test.snap // snapshots for the tests, you **MUST NOT** edit
    └── nextflow.config   // Nextflow configuration used for testing ONLY; multiple config files may exist in some cases
```

> ## Key terms

Reviewer 7: I don't think I know much about prompt engineering so my instincts may not be useful, but to a human reader, I think this terminology is better to have defined before they are used.

    - you **MUST NOT** add any other directives, they will be set by the pipeline
- Input section (`input:`): generally one tuple per logical entity (sample, reference, etc.) and `val` inputs for mandatory options; see https://nf-co.re/docs/specifications/components/modules/input-output-options for details
- Output section (`output:`): generally one output per logical file (e.g. one for sam/bam/cram and one for bai/crai); there must also be one topic output for each tool (to report the version); see https://nf-co.re/docs/specifications/components/modules/input-output-options for details
- `when:` section: you **MUST** leave the boilerplate intact
- Main script (`script:`): contains the shell script to execute, along with Nextflow code to generate the arguments; the definitions of `args` and `prefix` **MUST** be left intact
- Stub script (`stub`): contains a script to simulate the action of the module without running the tool 
  - All output file names **MUST** match the main script
  - Compressed files **MUST** be generated by compressing an empty file
  - The definitions of `args` and `prefix` **MUST** be left intact

> 

Reviewer: can't we just point to the specifications and to use `nf-core m lint`, otherwise this will be a pain to keep in sync

- You **SHOULD** use `nf-core subworkflows --help` to discover commands relevant for subworkflows.
- You **MUST** write subtool module names in commands with a slash, for example `samtools/sort`.

You can find the detailed documentation for each subcommand at https://nf-co.re/docs/nf-core-tools/cli/{modules|subworkflows}/{subcommand}.

## nf-test and testing
- Run module tests with `nf-core modules test {name}`.
- Run subworkflow tests with `nf-core subworkflows test {name}`.
- If you expect the output to change (e.g. after a tool update), you **SHOULD** update the snapshot with `nf-core modules/subworkflows test {name} --update`. You **MUST** regenerate snapshots on the same CPU architecture as CI.

## git and branch policy
- You **MUST NOT** commit any code to `master`. Use pull requests instead.
- You **MUST** create a new branch with a meaningful name for each feature, whether you are working directly in the nf-core repository or on a fork.
- If you work on multiple features in parallel, you **SHOULD** use a separate worktree for each task to prevent clobber.

## Commit rules and routine
- Each commit **SHOULD** contain one logical change.

> - Every commit **MUST** only edit files in one module or subworkflow.

Reviewer 7: I'm not sure if this refers to something I don't understand, but this writing seems like it prohibits fixing bad interfaces?

Author: I'm not sure I get the comment. If you mean the same change in multiple places, then the agent will make a separate commit per module/subworkflow.

Reviewer 7: I forgot the context of the module repo.

  - only nf-test snapshot update: "Update snapshots in {component name}"
- Before each commit, you **MUST** run `prek`, stage all changes it generates, resolve all errors and all solvable warnings, and repeat until none remain.

## Push routine
- You **SHOULD** only push after implementing some meaningful changes and if the code is working.
- Before pushing, you **MUST** run `nf-core modules/subworkflows lint {name}`. You **MUST** resolve all errors and all possible warnings. You **MUST** repeat this routine until there are no solvable outstanding issues.
- You **MUST** run `nf-core modules/subworkflows test {name}`. If the run fails, you **MUST** resolve the underlying issues. If the test fails due to mismatching snapshots, update them with `nf-core modules/subworkflows test {name} --update` only if permitted (see "nf-test" above). Otherwise, you **MUST** fix the issue that caused the unexpected change.
- If you know the code will cause issues or you intend to push more changes, you **SHOULD** add `[skip ci]` at the end of the commit title. Omit this tag if the changes for final, review-ready commits.

## PR procedure

> - All changes **MUST** be submitted to nf-core `master` through GitHub pull request.

Reviewer 7: (I'm wearing the dunce cap today, just resolve if you feel that's adequate :) 

Is `master` the right target branch? I thought most pipelines had flows going rather towards something like `dev` and making releases from there.

Reviewer: this is for the modules repo 🙂
